.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii clive.1
.\"
.Dd April 10, 2002
.Dt CLIVE 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm clive
.Nd A console LiveJournal client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm clive
.Op Fl u Ar username
.Op Fl w Ar password
.Op Fl j Ar journal
.Op Fl s Ar subject
.Op Fl r Ar security
.Op Fl f Ar mood
.Op Fl i Ar userpic
.Op Fl m Ar music
.Op Fl l Ar location
.Op Fl t Ar taglist
.br
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl Fl backdate Ar YYYYMMDDhhmm
.Op Fl Fl replace= Ns Ar itemid
.Op Fl Fl charset Ar encoding
.Op Fl Fl plainpass | Fl Fl hashpass
.Op Fl Fl softreturn
.Pp
.Nm clive
.Op Fl Fl loginonly | Fl Fl nologin
.Nm clive
.Op Fl Fl lfgrp | Fl Fl laccess | Fl Fl lpic | Fl Fl lfriends | Fl Fl levents Ns Op = Ns Ar num
.Nm clive
.Op Fl Fl addfriend Ar name | Fl Fl delfriend Ar name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm clive
is a console client for the LiveJournal system.  It doesn't offer much
in the way of features.  It's strength lies in the ability to pipe the
text for an entry into it on stdin, thus allowing it to be used
filter-style. It an also lauch your preferred editor to type entries.
It allows for users to login and post/read/replace events, and that's
it.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Fl u Ar username
.It Fl Fl user Ns = Ns Ar username
Specify the username
.It Fl w Ar password
.It Fl Fl password Ns = Ns Ar password
Specify the password
.It Fl j Ar journal
.It Fl Fl usejournal Ns = Ns Ar journal
Specify the journal to use, if different from the username.
You can also use the associated ID number obtainable with 
.Fl Fl laccess .
.It Fl s Ar subject
.It Fl Fl subject Ns = Ns Ar subject
The subject of the post.  This will disable interactive entry of the
subject.
.It Fl r Ar level
.It Fl Fl security Ns = Ns Ar level
Clive defaults to public security, unless specified otherwise.
This option is how you do that from the command line.
See the
.Sx SECURITY
section below for a description of that spec.
.It Fl f Ar mood 
.It Fl Fl mood Ns = Ns Ar mood
LiveJournal allows you to display a mood along with your post
Use this option to set it.
Use quotes if you want to have whitespace in your mood.
.It Fl m Ar music
.It Fl Fl music Ns = Ns Ar music
Describe the music you are listening to while writing this entry.
Use quotes if you want to have whitespace in your music title.
.It Fl l Ar location
.It Fl Fl location Ns = Ns Ar location
Describe where you are writing this entry (e.g. the name of your town).
.It Fl t Ar tag Ns Op Ns , Ns Ar tag Ns , Ns Ar ...
.It Fl Fl taglist Ar tag Ns Op Ns , Ns Ar tag Ns , Ns Ar ...
Add tags to categorise this entry.  Multiple tags must be separated by
commas.
.It Fl i Ar keyword
.It Fl Fl userpic Ar keyword
Many users have more than one user picture, you can specify which one
you would like to use here.  You can either use the picture keyword,
or the ID as specified by 
.Fl Fl lpic .
.It Fl p
.It Fl Fl preformat
This will tell LiveJournal that we are sending preformatted text.
This is useful if you have a lot of HTML in it.
.It Fl d
.It Fl Fl nocomments
This will tell LiveJournal to disable comments on this post.
.It Fl v
.It Fl Fl version
Display Clive version details and exit.
.It Fl Fl help
Display a short usage statement.
.It Fl Fl backdate Ar YYYYMMDDhhmm
Back date the item to year
.Ar YYYY ,
month
.Ar MM ,
day
.Ar DD ,
hour
.Ar hh ,
minute
.Ar mm .
This will insert it into your journal at that date, and it will prevent
the post from showing on other users' friends pages.
.It Fl Fl replace Ns = Ns Ar itemid
Replace an existing entry. The itemid can be obtained by running with
.Fl Fl levents
first. Note that not just the entire text, but all settings of the post
will be overridden, so you should use
.Fl Fl backdate
to reuse the old date. To delete an existing entry, just leave the event
text empty.
.It Fl Fl charset Ns = Ns Ar encoding
Specify the local character set (e.g.
.Ql utf-8 ,
.Ql iso8859-2 ,
.Ql koi8-r ) .
By default, the characterset is automatically detected (from environment
variables and system settings). Use this option to override the detected
value. This option can be set in the configuration file.
.It Fl Fl plainpass
Clive, by default, uses a challenge-response system to verify your
password.  If you use this option, it will send your password as
plaintext.
.Em Use of this option is not recommended.
.It Fl Fl hashpass
Clive, by default, uses a challenge-response system to verify your
password. If you use this option, it will send an MD5 hash of your
password to the server. Which is faster, but not very secure.
.Em  Use of this option is not recommended,
.It Fl Fl softreturn
This will collapse multiple lines to a single long line. A new paragraph
can still be started with an empty line in the text. In general this
will generate pretier output on the website. This option can be set in
the configuration file.
.It Fl Fl lfrgp
This will display a list of your friends groups with their associated ID
numbers.
.It Fl Fl laccess
This will display a list of the journals you have access to and their
associated ID numbers. If you join or leave a community, these numbers
will change.
.It Fl Fl lpic
This will dislpay a list of your userpics and their associated IDs.
If you make any changes to your user pictures, the IDs displayed may change.
.It Fl Fl lfriends
This will display a list of your friends and their birthdays (if set).
.It Fl Fl addfriend Ar name
Add a new friend. It is not an error to add an existing friend.
.It Fl Fl delfriend Ar name
Delete a friend. It is not an error to delete an already non-existing
friend.
.It Fl Fl levents Ns Op = Ns Ar num
This will display a list of the num most recent journal entries. If no
argument is given, it will only show the ID, timestamp and subject of
the most recent entry.
.It Fl Fl loginonly
.It Fl Fl nologin
These options control the behavior of clive with respect to logging into
the LJ server. Logging in allows you to retrieve any user-specific
information such as friend groups. If you wish to just login, use
.Fl Fl loginonly .
If you don't want to login at all use
.Fl Fl nologin .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa ~/.cliverc
Your personal configuration file, you can set most options in here so
that you don't have to pass them in on the command line.
.El
.Sh SECURITY
LiveJournal has a variety of security settings: public, private, and
custom.  Clive supports all of these through the
.Op Fl r
or
.Op Fl Fl security
option.  Posts default to public security unless set on the commandline.
Here are the different security levels and how to specify them. 
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ql private
Pass either 
.Ql 1
or 
.Ql private
as the argument, and you will be the only person that can view your post.
.It Ql friends
Pass either 
.Ql 2
or
.Ql friends
as the argument, and your post will only be viewable by the LiveJournal
users you list as friends.
.It Ql custom
LiveJournal allows you to specify up to 30 different friend groups,
and you can set your post readable by different groups. The way to
construct a security spec for a custom setting is to start with a
.Ql \&:
and then put in the name
.Bk
(e.g.
.Ql :closefriends ) .
.Ek
If you want to use multiple filters, continue separating with colons.
To include whitespace, use quotes.
.Bk
(e.g.
.Ql :schoolfriends:2:"Default View" )
.Ek
.El
.Sh HEADERS
It's annoying when you're editing a posting and realize another subject,
or mood description might be more appropriate. It is now possible to set
these in the posting itself by adding so called headers. If your posting
starts with lines containing special keywords followed by a colon and
value, these will be treated as special meta-information instead of the
body of your posting. For example currently available headers are:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
Subject: An example posting
Mood: happy
Music: EAV - Ding Dong
Taglist: example,first post,test
.Ed
.Pp
These headers should be separated from the content of your posting by an
empty line.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
We understand that it can be annoying to pass in half a dozen command
line options every time you want to post to LiveJournal, so we allow
you to have a configuration file that specifies all of these.
You can specify key value pairs in your .cliverc for any of the command
line options that take values. Each pair should go on a line of it's
own. Any whitespace before and after the key or value is ignored. Lines
that begin with
.Ql #
are also ignored.  Each pair should look like this: 
.Dl key = value
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Ev VISUAL
.It Ev EDITOR
The name for the external editor to use. If
.Ev VISUAL
is set, this will be preferred. If neither variable is set, a very lame
built-in editor will be used  This can be overriden in the configuration
file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Pa http://ljclive.sourceforge.net/
.Sh AUTHORS
.Bl -item -compact
.It
Original author:
.An -nosplit
.An "Samuel Tesla"
.It
Current maintainer:
.An "Johan van Selst"
.It
Contact email:
.Aq clive-maintainer@gletsjer.net
.El
